README.md, before:

# Portfolio Project 1 - 3D Artist Personal Website


The purpose of this website is to promote my brother's 3D work porttfolio. The main goal of this project is to demostrate my knowledge acquired throughout the course in HTML and CSS.

This site is aimed to advertise his services to video game companies, and companies or people that may require of similar services.

Users will find details about his rofile, his work, and a contact information form.

![Screenshot from amiresponsivedesign](assets/images/web-page-common-screen-sizes.png)

---

## Live Site

[Cristian Leon - 3D Artist](https://henryl74.github.io/3d-artist-personal-website/)

## Repository

https://github.com/henryl74/3d-artist-personal-website


---
# Features
---

My project consists of four webpages:

- Home or landing page.
- Profile page.
- Gallery page.
- Contact page.

### - The Navigation Bar

- The naviagation bar is located at the top of the page, displays the the artist name and role in the left corner.
- The other navigation links are on the to right hand side: Home, Profile, Gallery, Contact which link to different sections of the same page.
- The navigation bar is very responsive and user friendly, allows the user to find information easily in each section of the website.

![Screenshot of the Navigation Bar](assets/images/screenshot_navigation.png)

### - The Home or Landing Page

- Home or landing page, display the main image of the artist work; this page speaks for itself, it aims to give to user a first time view of the quality of his work.

![Screenshot of the Home Page](assets/images/Home_Page.png)

### - The Profile Page

- Profile page, describe the artist knowledge and capability to work with different platforms and systems related to his industry.

![Screenshot of the Profile Page](assets/images/Profile_Page.png)

### - The Gallery Page

- Gallery page, highlights various images of the artist work.

![Screenshot of the Gallery Page](assets/images/Gallery_Page.png)

### - The Contact Page

- Contact page, gives the option to the user to contact him via email, additionally they can include their phone number, please note this field is optional.

![Screenshot of the Contact Page](assets/images/Contact_Page.png)

### - The Footer

- The footer section includes links to the relevant social media sites of the artist. The links open to a new tab to allow easy navigation for the user.

![Screenshot of the Gallery Page](assets/images/Footer.png)

## Testing
---

- I tested this page in different web browsers such as: Chrome, Firefox, Safari.
- I confirmed that this project is responsive, looks good and functions on all standard screen sizes using the DevTools device toolbar.
- I confirmed that the navigation, header, home, profile, gallery, and contact text are all rideable and easy to understand.
- I confirmed that the form works. It requires entries in every field, will only accept an email in the email field, and the submit button works.

## Bugs

### Solved bugs

- While testing the navegation menu before deploying my project to github, I noticed there was a problem when clicking on the profile menu from the contact one; instead of taking me to the correct destination, it took me to the home page instead.
- I discovered this was due when I copied the initial index.html file to the contact one, I forgot to update the href to "profile.html" within anchor element.

![Screenshot of the anchor element](assets/images/anchor_code.png)

- The box I created for the profile page was out alignment at top, this due the "float left" I applied to the logo/header in my css file.
- I solved this by applying "clear left" to the box profile ID:

![Screenshot of the box id](assets/images/CSS_Profile_Box.png)

### Unfixed Bugs

- Due to time constraints I culd not test the site for all type of mobile phones, the site works very well in most mobile standard devices, laptops and desktop computer.
- The "Home" image seems to heavy and affects the score performance in lighthouse, this is something I would like to work more and fix it on a later stage.


## Validator Testing

### HTML

- The first time I run the html in W3C, they returned with a few errors encountered in the title of the images, I fixed this by renaming the images title by using underscore to eliminate any existing space from the name; run the html files again and this time no errors were returned when passing through the official W3C validator.

![W3C HTML Validator screenshot](assets/images/W3C_HTML_Validator.png)

### CSS

- No errors were found when passing through the official (Jigsaw) validator.

![W3C CSS Validator screenshot](assets/images/W3C_CSS_Validator.png)

### Accessibility

- I confirmed that the colors and fonts chosen are easy to read and accessible by running lighthouse in DevTools.

### Deployment

The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are:

- In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab.
- From the source section drop-down menu, select the Master Branch.
- Once the Master Branch has been selected, the page provided the link to the completed website.

The live link ca be found here -

## Credits

## Content

- The main idea for the layout of the website, contact form and  came from the Code Institute Love Running Project module, I had no previous experience building a website and doing this project previous my solo one was of a huge help, thank you Code Institute.
- The icons in the footer were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
- A big thank you to my brother Cristian Leon, for allowing me to use his images and content profile, I must say his passion for what he does has inspired me to pursue this new path in web development.

## Media

- All images in the website were provided by Cristian Leon.

## Acknowledgements

- The README template provided y Code Institute on the sample project README.md from "Project Portfolio 1"
- The online tutors for all their help.
- The Code Institute slack community.
- My classmates: Tasha Johnson and Usman Khan.
- Code Institute student support team, for listening to my concerns and for all the encouragement given.
---

Commit message:

Add screenshot image for submitted contact form

README.md, after:

# Portfolio Project 1 - 3D Artist Personal Website


The purpose of this website is to promote my brother's 3D work porttfolio. The main goal of this project is to demostrate my knowledge acquired throughout the course in HTML and CSS.

This site is aimed to advertise his services to video game companies, and people that may require of his services.

Users will be able to find details about his rofile, work, and a there is contact information form section for the user.

![Screenshot from amiresponsivedesign](assets/images/web-page-common-screen-sizes.png)

---

## Live Site

[Cristian Leon - 3D Artist](https://henryl74.github.io/3d-artist-personal-website/)

## Repository

https://github.com/henryl74/3d-artist-personal-website


---
# Features
---

My project consists of four webpages:

- Home or landing page.
- Profile page.
- Gallery page.
- Contact page.

### - The Navigation Bar

- The naviagation bar is located at the top of the page, displays the the artist name and role in the left corner.
- The other navigation links are on the to right hand side: Home, Profile, Gallery, Contact which link to different sections of the same page.
- The navigation bar is very responsive and user friendly, allows the user to find information easily in each section of the website.

![Screenshot of the Navigation Bar](assets/images/screenshot_navigation.png)

### - The Home or Landing Page

- Home page, displays the main image of the artist work along with his name as a logo on the top left hand side corner; this page speaks for itself, it aims to give to user a first time view experience of the quality of his work.

![Screenshot of the Home Page](assets/images/Home_Page.png)

### - The Profile Page

- Profile page, displays the artist profile photo; and describes his knowledge and capability to work with different platforms and systems related to his industry.

![Screenshot of the Profile Page](assets/images/Profile_Page.png)

### - The Gallery Page

- Gallery page, highlights various images of the artist work, some of them are sketches and some are personal projects for use of his portfolio.

![Screenshot of the Gallery Page](assets/images/Gallery_Page.png)

### - The Contact Page

- Contact page, encourages the users to contact the artist.
- The contact form collects details of the user such as names, email address, telephone number and they can include a message as well.
- Please note phone and message fields are optional.

![Screenshot of the Contact Page](assets/images/Contact_Page.png)


- I tested the contact form with successfully results when submitted.

![Screenshot submitted contact form](assets/images/contact_form_submitted.png)

- I tested the validation on the contact form and works very well, name and email fields are mandatory preventing the user of leaving this black or without the required information.

### - The Footer

- The footer section includes links to the relevant social media sites associated to the artist. The links open to a new tab to allow easy navigation for the user.

![Screenshot of the Gallery Page](assets/images/Footer.png)

## Testing
---

- I tested this page in different web browsers such as: Chrome, Firefox, Safari.
- I confirmed that this project is responsive, looks good and functions on all standard screen sizes using the DevTools device toolbar.
- I confirmed that the navigation, header, home, profile, gallery, and contact text are all rideable and easy to understand.
- I confirmed that the form works. It requires entries in every field, will only accept an email in the email field, and the submit button works.

## Bugs

### Solved bugs

- While testing the navegation menu before deploying my project to github, I noticed there was a problem when clicking on the profile menu from the contact one; instead of taking me to the correct destination, it took me to the home page instead.
- I discovered this was due when I copied the initial index.html file to the contact one, I forgot to update the href to "profile.html" within anchor element.

![Screenshot of the anchor element](assets/images/anchor_code.png)

- The box I created for the profile page was out alignment at top, this due the "float left" I applied to the logo/header in my css file.
- I solved this by applying "clear left" to the box profile ID:

![Screenshot of the box id](assets/images/CSS_Profile_Box.png)

### Unfixed Bugs

- Due to time constraints I culd not test the site for all type of mobile phones, the site works very well in most mobile standard devices, laptops and desktop computer.
- The "Home" image seems to heavy and affects the score performance in lighthouse, this is something I would like to work more and fix it on a later stage.


## Validator Testing

### HTML

- The first time I run the html in W3C, they returned with a few errors encountered in the title of the images, I fixed this by renaming the images title by using underscore to eliminate any existing space from the name; run the html files again and this time no errors were returned when passing through the official W3C validator.

![W3C HTML Validator screenshot](assets/images/W3C_HTML_Validator.png)

### CSS

- No errors were found when passing through the official (Jigsaw) validator.

![W3C CSS Validator screenshot](assets/images/W3C_CSS_Validator.png)

### Accessibility

- I confirmed that the colors and fonts chosen are easy to read and accessible by running lighthouse in DevTools.

### Deployment

The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are:

- In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab.
- From the source section drop-down menu, select the Master Branch.
- Once the Master Branch has been selected, the page provided the link to the completed website.

The live link ca be found here -

## Credits

## Content

- The main idea for the layout of the website, contact form and  came from the Code Institute Love Running Project module, I had no previous experience building a website and doing this project previous my solo one was of a huge help, thank you Code Institute.
- The icons in the footer were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
- A big thank you to my brother Cristian Leon, for allowing me to use his images and content profile, I must say his passion for what he does has inspired me to pursue this new path in web development.

## Media

- All images in my website project were provided by Cristian Leon (the artist).

## Acknowledgements

- The README template provided y Code Institute on the sample project README.md from "Project Portfolio 1"
- The online tutors for all their help.
- The Code Institute slack community.
- My classmates: Tasha Johnson and Usman Khan.
- Code Institute student support team, for listening to my concerns and for all their encouragement given.
---
